# Community

SmartCity, CuriousCity, CaringCity and other buzzwords...

## Objectives

- Build understanding of risks/benefits of SmartCities

## Goals

- Governance needs to be ethical, accountable, and transparent. These principles apply to the governance of social and technical platforms which includes data, algorithms, skills, infrastructure, and knowledge.
- The public sector should be participatory, collaborative and responsive. Government, civil society, private sector, the media, academia and residents can meaningfully participate in shaping their public life. Each have shared rights and responsibilities. This entails a culture of trust and critical thinking and fair, just, inclusive and informed approaches.
- Government uses data and technologies that are fit for purpose, can be repaired and queried, their source code are open, adhere to open standards, are interoperable, durable, secure, and where possible locally procured and scalable. Data and technology are used and acquired in such a way as to reduce harm and bias, increase sustainability and enhance flexibility. 
- With any modern government data management is the norm and custody and control over data generated by smart technologies is held and exercised in the public interest. Data governance includes sovereignty, residency, open by default, security, individual and social privacy, and grants people authority over their personal data.
- It is recognized that data and technology are not the solution to many of the systemic issues citizens face, nor are there always quick fixes. These problems require innovative, sometimes long term, social, organizational, economic, and political processes and solutions.

### Seeking Out New Ideas

## Links
- https://www.opennorth.ca/open-smart-cities-guide - from OpenNorth

## Canadian Examples
